docs/vpp/configuration/nat/cgnat.rst, before:

:lastproofread: 2025-09-04

.. _vpp_config_nat_cgnat:

.. include:: /_include/need_improvement.txt

#######################
VPP CGNAT Configuration
#######################

The Carrier-grade NAT (CGNAT) is a special type of NAT mainly targeted for usage by Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to manage the limited pool of public IP addresses. It solves two main problems:

* allows to fairly share a limited number of public IP addresses between multiple customers, ensuring they all have access to the internet and cannot interfere with each other.
* allows to track and log the usage of public IP addresses by different customers, which is often a regulatory requirement.

The CGNAT configuration is a straightforward process. It involves defining the inside and outside interfaces and creating the necessary rules to manage the translation of private IP addresses to public IP addresses.

.. warning::

   **Enabling CGNAT** on an interface (both inside and outside) **disables normal routing** on these interfaces, **also as an management access** to VyOS router itself.
   
   Ensure you have an alternative management path to the router before applying CGNAT configuration!

Interface Configuration
-----------------------

First, you need to define the inside and outside interfaces. The inside interface is connected to the private network, while the outside interface is connected to the public network.

.. cfgcmd::

   set vpp nat cgnat interface inside <inside-interface>

.. cfgcmd::

   set vpp nat cgnat interface outside <outside-interface>

This is a mandatory step, as the CGNAT needs to know on which interfaces it needs to apply rules and operate.

NAT Rules Configuration
-----------------------

Next, you need to create the NAT rules.

.. cfgcmd::

   set vpp nat cgnat rule <rule-number> description <description>

Allows you to describe the rule for easier identification.

.. cfgcmd::

   set vpp nat cgnat rule <rule-number> inside-prefix <inside-prefix>

Sets the inside prefix (private IP range) that will be translated.

.. cfgcmd::

   set vpp nat cgnat rule <rule-number> outside-prefix <outside-prefix>

Sets the outside prefix (public IP range) that will be used for translation.

Timeouts Configuration
----------------------

In some cases, you might want to adjust the timers for the NAT sessions. This can help to optimize the address space usage by controlling how long a session remains active, and how long it occupies an IP address and port combination.

This setting can be adjusted for different protocols individually:

.. code-block::

    set vpp nat cgnat timeout icmp <timeout-value>
    set vpp nat cgnat timeout tcp-established <timeout-value>
    set vpp nat cgnat timeout tcp-transitory <timeout-value>
    set vpp nat cgnat timeout udp <timeout-value>

Example Configuration
---------------------

Here is an example configuration for a CGNAT setup, assuming:

* Inside interface: ``eth2``
* Outside interface: ``eth1``
* Inside prefix: ``100.64.0.0/16``
* Outside prefix: ``203.0.113.0/24``

.. code-block::

   set vpp nat cgnat interface inside eth2
   set vpp nat cgnat interface outside eth1
   set vpp nat cgnat rule 1 description "CGNAT Rule 1"
   set vpp nat cgnat rule 1 inside-prefix 100.64.0.0/16
   set vpp nat cgnat rule 1 outside-prefix 203.0.113.0/24

Operational Commands
====================

Once the CGNAT is configured, you can use the following commands to monitor its status and operation:

.. opcmd::

   show vpp nat cgnat interfaces

Displays the configured inside and outside interfaces.

.. code-block::

    vyos@vyos:~$ show vpp nat cgnat interfaces 
    CGNAT interfaces:
      eth2 in
      eth1 out

.. opcmd::

    show vpp nat cgnat sessions

Displays the active NAT sessions. Be aware that this command can produce a large amount of output if there are many active sessions.

.. opcmd::

   show vpp nat cgnat mappings

Displays the current NAT mappings, including inside and outside address prefixes.

.. code-block::

    vyos@vyos:~$ show vpp nat cgnat mappings 
    Inside         Outside           Sharing ratio    Ports per host    Sessions
    -------------  --------------  ---------------  ----------------  ----------
    100.64.0.0/16  203.0.113.0/24              256               252           0


Potential Issues and Troubleshooting
====================================

Configuration is failed to apply with error similar to:

.. code-block::
    
    vpp_papi.vpp_papi.VPPIOError: [Errno 2] VPP API client: read failed``

CGNAT utilizes main heap memory and if you are trying to configure big prefixes or a large number of NAT sessions, you may run into memory allocation issues. Try to :ref:`increase the main heap size in VPP configuration <vpp_config_dataplane_memory>`.

Commit message:

vpp: Enhanced memory, buffers, and CGNAT documentation, added troubleshooting (#1687)
* vpp: Enhanced memory and buffer configuration documentation

- Added physmem configuration section with practical examples and troubleshooting
- Clarified relationship between physmem and buffer allocation with cross-references
- Improved VPP logging documentation with detailed log location descriptions
- Fixed formatting issues in system configuration

* vpp: Added CGNAT memory requirements

Expanded CGNAT settings page with information about:
- Memory requirements
- Hardcoded simultaneous sessions limit

* vpp: Added troubleshooting page

Added page with basic steps for troubleshooting:
- Capturing packets (PCAP)
- Tracing packets
- Additional diagnostics information from VPP
- Automatic collection of most details with Python script

---------

Co-authored-by: Daniil Baturin <daniil@baturin.org>

docs/vpp/configuration/nat/cgnat.rst, after:

:lastproofread: 2025-09-04

.. _vpp_config_nat_cgnat:

.. include:: /_include/need_improvement.txt

#######################
VPP CGNAT Configuration
#######################

The Carrier-grade NAT (CGNAT) is a special type of NAT mainly targeted for usage by Internet Service Providers (ISPs) to manage the limited pool of public IP addresses. It solves two main problems:

* allows to fairly share a limited number of public IP addresses between multiple customers, ensuring they all have access to the internet and cannot interfere with each other.
* allows to track and log the usage of public IP addresses by different customers, which is often a regulatory requirement.

The CGNAT configuration is a straightforward process. It involves defining the inside and outside interfaces and creating the necessary rules to manage the translation of private IP addresses to public IP addresses.

.. warning::

   **Enabling CGNAT** on an interface (both inside and outside) **disables normal routing** on these interfaces, **also as an management access** to VyOS router itself.
   
   Ensure you have an alternative management path to the router before applying CGNAT configuration!

Interface Configuration
-----------------------

First, you need to define the inside and outside interfaces. The inside interface is connected to the private network, while the outside interface is connected to the public network.

.. cfgcmd::

   set vpp nat cgnat interface inside <inside-interface>

.. cfgcmd::

   set vpp nat cgnat interface outside <outside-interface>

This is a mandatory step, as the CGNAT needs to know on which interfaces it needs to apply rules and operate.

NAT Rules Configuration
-----------------------

Next, you need to create the NAT rules.

.. cfgcmd::

   set vpp nat cgnat rule <rule-number> description <description>

Allows you to describe the rule for easier identification.

.. cfgcmd::

   set vpp nat cgnat rule <rule-number> inside-prefix <inside-prefix>

Sets the inside prefix (private IP range) that will be translated.

.. cfgcmd::

   set vpp nat cgnat rule <rule-number> outside-prefix <outside-prefix>

Sets the outside prefix (public IP range) that will be used for translation.

.. important::

   **Memory Requirements**
   
   CGNAT memory usage scales with the number of internal customers.

   **Each 256 customers** (equivalent to a /24 subnet) requires approximately **4 MB of main heap memory**. This memory is used for maintaining customer-to-port mappings and session state information.

   Ensure your VPP main heap size is configured appropriately based on your expected customer count. See :ref:`VPP Memory Configuration <vpp_config_dataplane_memory>` for details on adjusting main heap size.

Session Limitations
-------------------

CGNAT has built-in session limitations to ensure fair resource allocation:

**Each customer (internal IP address) is limited to a maximum of 1000 simultaneous sessions**, even if more than 1000 ports are allocated to that customer. This limitation applies to all types of sessions (TCP, UDP, ICMP).

Timeouts Configuration
----------------------

In some cases, you might want to adjust the timers for the NAT sessions. This can help to optimize the address space usage by controlling how long a session remains active, and how long it occupies an IP address and port combination.

This setting can be adjusted for different protocols individually:

.. code-block::

    set vpp nat cgnat timeout icmp <timeout-value>
    set vpp nat cgnat timeout tcp-established <timeout-value>
    set vpp nat cgnat timeout tcp-transitory <timeout-value>
    set vpp nat cgnat timeout udp <timeout-value>

Example Configuration
---------------------

Here is an example configuration for a CGNAT setup, assuming:

* Inside interface: ``eth2``
* Outside interface: ``eth1``
* Inside prefix: ``100.64.0.0/16``
* Outside prefix: ``203.0.113.0/24``

.. code-block::

   set vpp nat cgnat interface inside eth2
   set vpp nat cgnat interface outside eth1
   set vpp nat cgnat rule 1 description "CGNAT Rule 1"
   set vpp nat cgnat rule 1 inside-prefix 100.64.0.0/16
   set vpp nat cgnat rule 1 outside-prefix 203.0.113.0/24

Operational Commands
====================

Once the CGNAT is configured, you can use the following commands to monitor its status and operation:

.. opcmd::

   show vpp nat cgnat interfaces

Displays the configured inside and outside interfaces.

.. code-block::

    vyos@vyos:~$ show vpp nat cgnat interfaces 
    CGNAT interfaces:
      eth2 in
      eth1 out

.. opcmd::

    show vpp nat cgnat sessions

Displays the active NAT sessions. Be aware that this command can produce a large amount of output if there are many active sessions.

.. opcmd::

   show vpp nat cgnat mappings

Displays the current NAT mappings, including inside and outside address prefixes.

.. code-block::

    vyos@vyos:~$ show vpp nat cgnat mappings 
    Inside         Outside           Sharing ratio    Ports per host    Sessions
    -------------  --------------  ---------------  ----------------  ----------
    100.64.0.0/16  203.0.113.0/24              256               252           0


Potential Issues and Troubleshooting
====================================

Configuration is failed to apply with error similar to:

.. code-block::
    
    vpp_papi.vpp_papi.VPPIOError: [Errno 2] VPP API client: read failed``

CGNAT utilizes main heap memory and if you are trying to configure big prefixes or a large number of NAT sessions, you may run into memory allocation issues. Try to :ref:`increase the main heap size in VPP configuration <vpp_config_dataplane_memory>`.
