docs/vpp/configuration/dataplane/logging.rst, before:

:lastproofread: 2025-09-04

.. _vpp_config_dataplane_logging:

.. include:: /_include/need_improvement.txt

#########################
VPP Logging Configuration
#########################

VPP logging is an important part of monitoring and troubleshooting the performance and behavior of the VPP dataplane.

VPP logs are stored in the ``/var/log/vpp.log`` file. Additionally daemon logs can be found in the system journal.

Logging detalization can be configured via the next command:

.. cfgcmd:: set vpp settings logging default-log-level <level>

Where ``<level>`` can be one of the following:

- ``emerg`` (Emergency) - System is unusable.
- ``alert`` (Alert) - Immediate action required.
- ``crit`` (Critical) - Critical conditions.
- ``err`` (Error) - Error conditions.
- ``warn`` (Warning) - Warning conditions.
- ``notice`` (Notice) - Normal but significant.
- ``info`` (Informational) - Routine informational messages.
- ``debug`` (Debug) - Detailed debugging messages.
- ``disabled`` (Disabled) - Logging disabled.

It is recommended to set logging level to ``debug`` only for troubleshooting purposes, as it can generate a large volume of log data. For regular operation, a level of ``info`` or ``warn`` is usually sufficient.

Potential Issues and Troubleshooting
====================================

Improper logging configuration can lead to various issues, including:

- Excessive log file sizes if the logging level is set too high (e.g., ``debug``)
- Missing critical information if the logging level is set too low (e.g., ``alert``)
- Performance degradation due to excessive logging overhead

Consider adjusting the logging level if you experience issues mentioned above.

Commit message:

vpp: Enhanced memory, buffers, and CGNAT documentation, added troubleshooting (#1687)
* vpp: Enhanced memory and buffer configuration documentation

- Added physmem configuration section with practical examples and troubleshooting
- Clarified relationship between physmem and buffer allocation with cross-references
- Improved VPP logging documentation with detailed log location descriptions
- Fixed formatting issues in system configuration

* vpp: Added CGNAT memory requirements

Expanded CGNAT settings page with information about:
- Memory requirements
- Hardcoded simultaneous sessions limit

* vpp: Added troubleshooting page

Added page with basic steps for troubleshooting:
- Capturing packets (PCAP)
- Tracing packets
- Additional diagnostics information from VPP
- Automatic collection of most details with Python script

---------

Co-authored-by: Daniil Baturin <daniil@baturin.org>

docs/vpp/configuration/dataplane/logging.rst, after:

:lastproofread: 2025-09-04

.. _vpp_config_dataplane_logging:

.. include:: /_include/need_improvement.txt

#########################
VPP Logging Configuration
#########################

VPP logging is an important part of monitoring and troubleshooting the performance and behavior of the VPP dataplane.

VPP stores logs in two places:

- ``/var/log/vpp.log`` — This file contains logs related to daemon startup and log of commands executed directly via VPP CLI. Pay attention, VyOS does not use VPP CLI for configuration, so this log will not contain any configuration changes made via VyOS CLI, and will not be informative in most cases.
- System journal — contains logs related to the VPP daemon work, including errors, warnings, and informational messages. It is the main destination of logs generated by VPP.

Logging detalization can be configured via the next command:

.. cfgcmd:: set vpp settings logging default-log-level <level>

Where ``<level>`` can be one of the following:

- ``emerg`` (Emergency) - System is unusable.
- ``alert`` (Alert) - Immediate action required.
- ``crit`` (Critical) - Critical conditions.
- ``err`` (Error) - Error conditions.
- ``warn`` (Warning) - Warning conditions.
- ``notice`` (Notice) - Normal but significant.
- ``info`` (Informational) - Routine informational messages.
- ``debug`` (Debug) - Detailed debugging messages.
- ``disabled`` (Disabled) - Logging disabled.

It is recommended to set logging level to ``debug`` only for troubleshooting purposes, as it can generate a large volume of log data. For regular operation, a level of ``info`` or ``warn`` is usually sufficient.

Potential Issues and Troubleshooting
====================================

Improper logging configuration can lead to various issues, including:

- Excessive log file sizes if the logging level is set too high (e.g., ``debug``)
- Missing critical information if the logging level is set too low (e.g., ``alert``)
- Performance degradation due to excessive logging overhead

Consider adjusting the logging level if you experience issues mentioned above.
